Thoughts on the magic system:
Ditch psionics as a separate system - magic on Gaius will be somewhat psionic in nature
Stealing a bit from the book “First Binding", the progression of casting a spell would be:
Gather your will, clear your thoughts (Willpower check). Visualize the spell’s outcome
Bisect your mind, doubling your inner vision of the world around you
Bisect again and again until you reach the requisite number of “folds” necessary to enact a spell -> 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, etc. Each bisection takes more conviction and harder willpower checks
The number of bisections you can do each round is determined like the number of attacks, but using your perception/spellcasting skill. It is also affected by a multiplier depending on the power source (see below)
The number of bisections needed is calculated at the start of spell casting based upon the base cost of the skill +  the target’s spell defense (willpower based)
AOE spells have the number of folds calculated based on the highest defense in the room
Doing folds requires a power source (sunlight (slow), a flame(faster), the caster’s health(fastest)) in addition to the conviction cost for the folds
Once the number of folds is achieved, there is a spellcasting check again the target(s) defense (physical defense for something like a earth spear, mental defense for other stuff)
Spells hit HARD if they can be completed. It is a glass cannon style of play, since your casting can be interrupted by loss of focus, by being attacked/knocked down, etc if the caster fails to maintain concentration
Some spells like throwing a stone/projectile require a component in addition to the power source 
Example spellcasting in combat for the spell “Throw Stone”
From the caster’s perspective:
Round 1:
“You gather your will and form an image of the world where the stone in your hand flies into <target> at high speed.”
Number of folds is calculated:
Base spell cost: 4
Target defense is 100 (willpower) + 15 (spellcasting rank) 115. Multiplier is 1.15
Folds needed: 8 (rounds up to the next bisection)
Round 2:
Number of bisections the caster can do this round is calculated
Perception (100) + spellcasting 25 = 1.25 * source (flame 1.5)  = 1.875, rounded to 2
“You fold your inner vision of reality 2 times. You now hold 4 folds.”
<target> attacks and hits. Caster makes a concentration check and passes:
“You maintain concentration.” added to the end of the attack/damage message
Round 3:
Number of bisections was already calculated at 2, but we only need one more fold
“You fold your inner vision of reality 1 time. You now hold 8 folds.”
“You impose your will on reality. A small stone flies from your hand towards <target>, devastating them!”
Attack roll against their physical defense was made, they failed dodge/parry/block. Damage roll was made. This spell would do ~ as much as 6-10 physical attacks to compensate for how hard it is to resolve and the casting time.
Round 4:
Caster defaults back over to their normal physical attacks (unarmed/melee weapons/ranged weapons). Initiating casting is on the same cooldown as the special attacks
Permanent changes to the environment, especially to another unwilling target, should require a lot of folds. Bending reality in opposition to someone else’s will is hard. Creating a permanent anomaly (ex. A magic bag of holding that is bigger inside than out/pocket dimension) is really hard. Alterations to your own body are easier, but still hard. 

Pieces we need in place before we can do the AI agents bit:
Magic system rework per above
Full skills/spells rework with progression hooked up. Basic crafting implemented
Mutations
Configurable balance knobs in a single file with configs for:
Progression as a whole
Stats as a whole
Individual stats
Skills as a whole
Individual skills
Mutation rate as a whole
Mutation rate/liklihood per mutation
Dev tools for building out the mud, with hooks for an AI dev
A good baseline starting area with tutorials
